# Sample Assignment

## About assignment

This was the second assignment for the [Winter 2017](https://github.com/ECSE321-Winter2017-McGill)
edition of ECSE321 Introduction to Software Engineering course taught at
[McGill University](https://mcgill.ca/). The instructor was [Prof. Dániel Varró](https://github.com/varrodan).

The instructions describe a fantasy basketball domain in the context of an online game,
where users can assemble virtual teams of NBA players. Students are expected to describe all
domain concepts and their relationships in an Umple domain model.

In this work, we ignore the assignment sections related to best practices and 
code generation, since grading them cannot be easily automated.

## File descriptions

[`Assignment_2_Specification.pdf`](Assignment_2_Specification.pdf)
contains the assignment specification, as given to the students.

[`Assignment_2_Ideal_Solution.pdf`](Assignment_2_Ideal_Solution.pdf)
contains the instructor's ideal solution for the assignment. The human graders
were provided this file.

[`0.ump`](0.ump)
contains the instructor's ideal solution for the assignment, in
[Umple](umple.org) format. This solution is from the document above.

[`Assignment_2_Grader_Feedback_Template.txt`](Assignment_2_Grader_Feedback_Template.txt)
contains the feedback template that human graders must use to evaluate assignment submissions.

[`marking_scheme.json`](marking_scheme.json)
is the marking scheme encoded in JSON format to be used by the heuristic.

[`12.ump`](12.ump)
is the student submission of the first author.

[`12_grading_notes.txt`](12_grading_notes.txt)
are the manual grading notes written by the first author, since we had no access to the 
original human grades and feedback for the assignment. The second author verified this 
grading process. The numerical data from the grading notes is found in the relevant grading 
csv files. 

Files ending with `*.ecore` or `*.cdm` are intermediate files used for 
TouchCore grading. They can be generated by following the instructions in the
main [README](README.md).


